(w10-painkiller.txt)
if worst comes to worst, and I must, this is what I do to make it slightly more bareable.

i'll add more to this over time, as i find them out, to combat their anti-user design methodology, and all that they do wrong.
-

Use a local-only account, NOT a microsoft account, if at all possible.

Enable all the developer mode usability tweaks, and the mode that lets you install what you want to.

Disable and delete the diagtrack service.

Disable and delete the dmwappushsvc (dmwappushservice) service.

Install the Chocolatey package manager.

Get 'winget' package manager installed and ready to go.

Get WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) installed and ready to go.

Install the 'Windows Terminal'.

Hide Cornata from the taskbar.

Get a lot of your applications all at once, easily, from 'Ninite'.

Install 7-zip.

Install the K-Lite Codec Pack.

Install mbam (Malwarebytes Anti-Malware)

Install Unchecky.

Install CCleaner.

Install & use the MVPS HOSTS file.

Install Launchy.

Install and use 'O&O ShutUp10'.

Make a shortcut to the "godmode" "control panel" folder.

Install right-click Windows 10 take-ownership tweak.

Install and use PC Decrapifier.

Be sure to look at and adjust all of the Privacy menu settings in the modern PC settings app.

Install and use Ultimate Windows Tweaker.


Stop apps (and ads) that you don't want from automatically installing on your machine. 
Step 1: https://windowsloop.com/stop-windows-10-from-installing-suggested-apps/
Step 2: https://winaero.com/stop-windows-10-anniversary-update-from-installing-candy-crush-and-other-unwanted-apps/


Stop most Windows 10 ads: https://www.howtogeek.com/269331/how-to-disable-all-of-windows-10s-built-in-advertising/

Install and use 'Do Not Spy 10'.

Enable bitlocker disk encryption.

Be sure windows defender is ON.

Keep the system up to date.

Backup early, backup often.

Search for commands online to fully delete all the Windows 10 AppX packages that you will never use.

Disable cortana.

Disable & uninstall OneDrive.

Pin powershell to the taskbar.

Disable mouse acceleration in mouse.cpl by UN-ticking the box mistakenly labelled "Enhance pointer precision".

Pin Windows Terminal to the taskbar.

Disable the sticky keys keyboard shortcut.

Set the level of UAC to one peg above disabled.


Be sure to look at and overview EVERYTHING on the system, all apps, all settings, etc, to be sure it's as you wish for it to be.

That's all. Use Linux in all situations you can, please.

-

